>> Kyle Simpson: So in both cases,
closure enables us.
It's a choice of where we put the code
to decide whether we want it to happen
eagerly now or lazily later.
The problem is that that's a tradeoff.
It'd be kind of nice if
there was a happy medium,
some way to have the best of both worlds,
right?
Well, let's think about this.
We want to do the work only once but
we don't want to do the work
unless it's been asked for.
So what if we put the work back
inside of the inner function,
back online three and a half now,
but what if we can somehow detect
that the work had it been down and
do it once but then never do it again?
That means it's kind of like
compromised between the two.
So what if we did this?
What if we had a string
variable line two and
then our function that we return,
it checks to see if string is undefined,
which will only ever be
true the first time.
And if it is undefined, we do the work.
And then from then on, we never redo
the work because we only did it once and
now string is actually a string,
it's not undefined anymore.
So we just skip over that if statement and
just keep returning the same result.
Now what line does the work happen on?
Is it line 11 or line 13?
>> Speaker 2: 13.
>> Kyle Simpson: And what about line 14?
It doesn't happen on line 14, right?
Cuz we've already done it on line 13.
So now we have the best of both worlds,
we deferred but
then we still only did it once,
and we cached the result.
Now, in the previous examples,
it was pretty clear,
we are closed our variable that wasn't
changing, so the function was still pure.
But I wanna ask you, how sure are you
that this code is functionally pure?
>> Kyle Simpson: Look at what's happening.
Remember, we said one of the key hallmarks
is that if we're gonna close over
something and
it still needs to be functionally pure,
what did we say we cannot close over?
>> Kyle Simpson: We said absolutely
don't close over something that what?
That changes.
Does the string variable change over time?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: It changes from undefined
to being defined as a string, and
we are closed over
a thing that is changing.
That should be very, very suspicious to
you, red flags should be going off saying.
Is this functionally pure or not?
That's what a functional programmer does,
they look at something and they say,
wait a minute, you closed over
a variable that gets reassigned.
I'm not sure about this, right?
Because, usually, when you close over
a variable that gets reassigned,
what is usually the case?
It's usually impure, right?
So what about our
A function call on line 13?
Is it a pure function call?
>> Kyle Simpson: The answer to that
question can be found on line 14.
And line 15 and 16 and 17.
No matter how many times we call it.
How many times could I
call this function and
have it return the exact
same string of Ten As?
No matter how many times I call it,
I'm always gonna get back As, right?
Remember, when I turned the Rubik's Cube
earlier and I said a pure function call is
characterized by, given the same input,
it always produces the same output.
So A satisfies that definition
of a pure function call.
But the code is not obviously pure.
We have to go convince
ourselves that it is pure.
Are you following me?
So we've defeated one of
the most important reasons for
doing functional programming.
I mean, yes,
we want a program to work, but
functional programming is not worth it
unless it is readable and understandable.
If a reader read this code, if they
glanced at it immediately they would be
much more likely to assume, a functional
programmer, would be more likely to
assume that this code is impure
than to assume that it's pure.
And they would have to convince
themselves that it was pure.
So in other words, I would say, this code
style leads to a low degree of confidence
in the function period, as opposed to
what we saw on the previous slide,
which we probably would've said high
degree of confidence in the purity.
Because it's very clear the variable
doesn't get reassigned.
Here it gets reassigned, but it's a very
special way of getting reassigned that
isn't observable and, therefore, still
preserves the magic of function purity.
So should you do this?
This is certainly better for performance.
We got the better trade off, or the better
performance benefit, we got lazy,
but only did once in cash.
For performance reasons,
you might wanna do this.
But for stylistic reasons,
have we shot ourselves in the foot?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
what if there was a way of achieving
this performance benefit by
having a declarative style?
Well now that would truly
sound functional, wouldn't it?
I turns out, there is a utility for
exactly this kind of purpose.
Which is, if you have a pure function,
which all your functions that
you want to talk about in this course,
they should all be pure.
If you have a pure function, you know that
giving the same input is always gonna
produce the same output, or at least,
It's supposed to if it's pure.
So what if we had some magic
way that we could only ever
compute an output for an input once?
And then sort of cache that information
and every other time that that same set of
inputs came in just
return the cached output.
>> Kyle Simpson: That'd be pretty cool,
wouldn't it?
It turns out just such a utility exists,
and it's called memoize.
We built into all of your favorite
functional programming libraries.
Look at what memoize does.
It takes a function that is not optimized.
What is line 2 through 4 showing us?
A lazy function, right?
One that's gonna do the work every time.
Memoize adapts that function,
it produces a new adapted function.
It doesn't actually have
a different shape this time,
it just has a different behavior.
In this case, the different behavior is
that it's wrapped with some code which you
don't see here.
It's wrapped with some code that
will check all of the inputs, and
if those inputs have been passed in
before, simply return the cache output.
So it maintains an internal
cache that you don't see.
So a couple of takeaways here.
Number one, this style of code hopefully
is much more obviously pure T.
Because we are crossing over any
variable that gets re-assigned.
All the variables that we are using,
they only get assigned once.
Everybody with me?
The count variable, the closed
server count, so in other words,
the original function that we wrote was
the best version of the function we wrote.
We didn't need to change its definition.
We just needed to memoize it.
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way,
this term, memoization,
I don't know where that word comes from.
I've tried to look.
I've tried to search for it.
I don't know where it comes from,
but I have a way of thinking
about it that works for me.
Memoization is like the word memorization,
but they forgot the r.
>> Kyle Simpson: Like 90% of you
didn't get that joke, but that's okay.
Memoization is like the word
memorization without the r in it, okay?
I don't know if that's where it comes
from, but that's what works for me.
That's how I memorize and
how I remember it,
is that it's memorization without the R.
So, memoization, that's this technique.
One takeaway is that it allows us to write
that more declarative style that is more
obviously pure.
But there's another takeaway.
Something that's very important for you,
because you might think to yourself,
seems like this is a pretty cool utility.
Maybe I ought to just memorize every
single function I've ever write, right?
You might be thinking that.
Consider the cost of memoization.
It's not just that we're
wrapping a function around it.
Consider the cost.
Memoization is maintaining
an eternal cache,
which is going to use additional memory.
And there will be some slight
additional processing around.
So you should ask yourself before passing
any function to a memoize utility,
you should ask yourself, is this function
likely to benefit from memorization?
So what are the cases where
memorization is useful?
One characteristic is if
you expect it to be called
multiple times with the same input.
Well then that's clearly a case
where you want to use memorization.
What if you expected it to be
called lots of different times, but
every time it was called, it was
being called with a different input?
Would that be a good
usage of a memoization?
>> Speaker 3: It would
take up a lot of memory.
>> Kyle Simpson: Use up a lot of memory,
right?
So you have to somehow be able to
predict your likely expected use case,
your usage pattern, for a function,
to decide if it should be memoized.
Do not just memoize everything
because it's a cool trick.
Memoize it if the usage pattern dictates
that you would benefit from that
performance improvement.
Otherwise, take out the memoize,
go back to two slides ago, and
just leave it as a lazy function.
>> Kyle Simpson: You with me?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's the benefit of
thinking about this, in this bigger sense,
thinking about function purity as what's
happening with the function calls.
Now, you have a question and-
>> Speaker 2: The last example before we
do the memoize, is that-
>> Speaker 2: Kind of an impure way of
writing memoize?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just curious how-
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not an impure way of
writing memoize,
it's just not as obviously pure.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah-
>> Kyle Simpson: It's still technically
pure-
>> Speaker 2: I'm just curious-
>> Kyle Simpson: But it's not
obviously so.
And it's more imperative.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just curious
how memoize would be written so
that we wouldn't have this necessarily
obvious, or is it written this way?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's
basically written this way.
>> Speaker 2: But it's just-
>> Kyle Simpson: But
it's inside of a utility that's
a vetted mathematically proven thing,
as opposed to cluttering up our code and
making the reader of our code second
guess, hey, is this pure enough?
We know we can trust memoize is provided
to us by a well-known functional library.
We don't know if you can trust your
ad hoc memoization on the fly.
You follow me?
That's a great question, by the way.
That's the key.
It's not that these things don't happen,
it's where they happen.
Do we shift them into this thing and allow
that detail to be handled over here, so
that my code I can focus
on the important stuff.